sync with CHARRA and fix too long lines (#9)
ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-network-device-subscription: draft-ietf-rats-network-device-subscription.md

--- abstract

> This memo defines how to subscribe to YANG Event Streams for Remote Attestation Procedures (RATS). In RATS, Conceptional Messages, are defined. Analogously, the YANG module defined in this memo augments the YANG module for TPM-based Challenge-Response based Remote Attestation (CHARRA) to allow for subscription to remote attestation Evidence. Additionally, this memo provides the methods and means to define additional Event Streams for other Conceptual Messages as illustrated in the RATS Architecture, e.g. Attestation Results, Endorsements, or Event Logs. The module defined requires at least one TPM 1.2 or TPM 2.0, or equivalent hardware implementations that include the protected capabilities as provided by TPMs, included in the device components of the composite device the YANG server is running on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document defines how to subscribe to YANG Event Streams for Remote Attestation Procedures (RATS). In RATS, the Conceptional Messages defined can potentially be subscribed to. Specifically, the YANG module defined in this document augments the YANG module for TPM-based Challenge-Response based Remote Attestation (CHARRA) to allow for subscription to the Conceptual Message type: Evidence. Additionally, this memo provides the methods and means to define additional Event Streams for other Conceptual Messages than Evidence as illustrated in the RATS Architecture, e.g., Attestation Results, Endorsements, or Event Logs. The module defined requires at least one TPM 1.2, TPM 2.0, or equivalent hardware implementations providing the same protected capabilities as TPMs to be available in the Attester the YANG server is running on.
```

In essence, the limitation of poll-based interactions results in two adverse effects:

1. Conceptual Messages are not streamed to an interested consumer of information, e.g., Verifiers or Relying Parties, as soon as they are generated.

2. If they were to be streamed, Conceptual Messages are not appraisable for their freshness in every scenario. This becomes more important with Conceptional Messages that have a strong dependency on freshness, such as Evidence and corresponding Attestation Results.

> This specification addresses the first adverse effect by enabling a consumer of Conceptual Messages (the subscriber) to request a continuous stream of new or updated Conceptual Messages via an {{RFC8639}} subscription to an \<attestation\> Event Stream. This new Event Stream is defined in this document and exists upon the producer of Conceptual Messages (the publisher). In the case of a Verifier's subscription to an Attester's Evidence, the Attester will continuously stream a requested set of freshly generated Evidence to the subscribing Verifier. For example, when the network device's Evidence changes after the occurrence of events like booting, updating, control unit fall-over, plugging in or out forwarding units, being attacked, and certificate lifetime change, the network device will generate the new Evidence to the subscribing Verifier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This specification addresses the first adverse effect by enabling a consumer of Conceptual Messages (the subscriber) to request a continuous stream of new or updated Conceptual Messages via an {{RFC8639}} subscription to an \<attestation\> Event Stream. This new Event Stream is defined in this document and exists upon the producer of Conceptual Messages (the publisher). In the case of a Verifier's subscription to an Attester's Evidence, the Attester will continuously stream a requested set of freshly generated Evidence to the subscribing Verifier. For example, when a network device's Evidence changes after the occurrence of events, such as booting, updating, control unit fall-over, plugging in or out forwarding units, being attacked, or certificate lifetime change, the network device will generate fresh Evidence available to the subscribing Verifier.
```
